
 OpenSSL 0.9.6m [engine] 17 Mar 2004

 Copyright (c) 1998-2004 The OpenSSL Project
 Copyright (c) 1995-1998 Eric A. Young, Tim J. Hudson
 All rights reserved.

 DESCRIPTION
 -----------

 The OpenSSL Project is a collaborative effort to develop a robust,
 commercial-grade, fully featured, and Open Source toolkit implementing the
 Secure Sockets Layer (SSL v2/v3) and Transport Layer Security (TLS v1)
 protocols as well as a full-strength general purpose cryptography library.
 The project is managed by a worldwide community of volunteers that use the
 Internet to communicate, plan, and develop the OpenSSL toolkit and its
 related documentation. 

 OpenSSL is based on the excellent SSLeay library developed from Eric A. Young
 and Tim J. Hudson.  The OpenSSL toolkit is licensed under a dual-license (the
 OpenSSL license plus the SSLeay license) situation, which basically means
 that you are free to get and use it for commercial and non-commercial
 purposes as long as you fulfill the conditions of both licenses. 

 OVERVIEW
 --------

 The OpenSSL toolkit includes:

 libssl.a:
     Implementation of SSLv2, SSLv3, TLSv1 and the required code to support
     both SSLv2, SSLv3 and TLSv1 in the one server and client.

 libcrypto.a:
     General encryption and X.509 v1/v3 stuff needed by SSL/TLS but not
     actually logically part of it. It includes routines for the following:

     Ciphers
        libdes - EAY's libdes DES encryption package which has been floating
                 around the net for a few years.  It includes 15
                 'modes/variations' of DES (1, 2 and 3 key versions of ecb,
                 cbc, cfb and ofb; pcbc and a more general form of cfb and
                 ofb) including desx in cbc mode, a fast crypt(3), and
                 routines to read passwords from the keyboard.
        RC4 encryption,
        RC2 encryption      - 4 different modes, ecb, cbc, cfb and ofb.
        Blowfish encryption - 4 different modes, ecb, cbc, cfb and ofb.
        IDEA encryption     - 4 different modes, ecb, cbc, cfb and ofb.

     Digests
        MD5 and MD2 message digest algorithms, fast implementations,
        SHA (SHA-0) and SHA-1 message digest algorithms,
        MDC2 message digest. A DES based hash that is popular on smart cards.

     Public Key
        RSA encryption/decryption/generation.  
            There is no limit on the number of bits.
        DSA encryption/decryption/generation.   
            There is no limit on the number of bits.
        Diffie-Hellman key-exchange/key generation.  
            There is no limit on the number of bits.

     X.509v3 certificates
        X509 encoding/decoding into/from binary ASN1 and a PEM
             based ASCII-binary encoding which supports encryption with a
             private key.  Program to generate RSA and DSA certificate
             requests and to generate RSA and DSA certificates.

     Systems
        The normal digital envelope routines and base64 encoding.  Higher
        level access to ciphers and digests by name.  New ciphers can be
        loaded at run time.  The BIO io system which is a simple non-blocking
        IO abstraction.  Current methods supported are file descriptors,
        sockets, socket accept, socket connect, memory buffer, buffering, SSL
        client/server, file pointer, encryption, digest, non-blocking testing
        and null.

     Data structures
        A dynamically growing hashing system
        A simple stack.
        A Configuration loader that uses a format similar to MS .ini files.

 openssl: 
     A command line tool that can be used for:
        Creation of RSA, DH and DSA key parameters
        Creation of X.509 certificates, CSRs and CRLs 
        Calculation of Message Digests
        Encryption and Decryption with Ciphers
        SSL/TLS Client and Server Tests
        Handling of S/MIME signed or encrypted mail

        
 PATENTS
 -------

 Various companies hold various patents for various algorithms in various
 locations around the world. _YOU_ are responsible for ensuring that your use
 of any algorithms is legal by checking if there are any patents in your
 country.  The file contains some of the patents that we know about or are
 rumored to exist. This is not a definitive list.

 RSA Security holds software patents on the RC5 algorithm.  If you
 intend to use this cipher, you must contact RSA Security for
 licensing conditions. Their web page is http://www.rsasecurity.com/.

 RC4 is a trademark of RSA Security, so use of this label should perhaps
 only be used with RSA Security's permission. 

 The IDEA algorithm is patented by Ascom in Austria, France, Germany, Italy,
 Japan, the Netherlands, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, UK and the USA.  They
 should be contacted if that algorithm is to be used; their web page is
 http://www.ascom.ch/.

 INSTALLATION
 ------------

 To install this package under a Unix derivative, read the INSTALL file.  For
 a Win32 platform, read the INSTALL.W32 file.  For OpenVMS systems, read
 INSTALL.VMS.

 Read the documentation in the doc/ directory.  It is quite rough, but it
 lists the functions; you will probably have to look at the code to work out
 how to use them. Look at the example programs.

 PROBLEMS
 --------

 For some platforms, there are some known problems that may affect the user
 or application author.  We try to collect those in doc/PROBLEMS, with current
 thoughts on how they should be solved in a future of OpenSSL.

 SUPPORT 
 -------

 If you have any problems with OpenSSL then please take the following steps
 first:

    - Download the current snapshot from ftp://ftp.openssl.org/snapshot/
      to see if the problem has already been addressed
    - Remove ASM versions of libraries
    - Remove compiler optimisation flags 

 If you wish to report a bug then please include the following information in
 any bug report:

    - On Unix systems:
        Self-test report generated by 'make report'
    - On other systems:
        OpenSSL version: output of 'openssl version -a'
        OS Name, Version, Hardware platform
        Compiler Details (name, version)
    - Application Details (name, version)
    - Problem Description (steps that will reproduce the problem, if known)
    - Stack Traceback (if the application dumps core)

 Report the bug to the OpenSSL project via the Request Tracker
 (http://www.openssl.org/rt2.html) by mail to:

    openssl-bugs@openssl.org

 Note that mail to openssl-bugs@openssl.org is recorded in the publicly
 readable request tracker database and is forwarded to a public
 mailing list. Confidential mail may be sent to openssl-security@openssl.org
 (PGP key available from the key servers).

 HOW TO CONTRIBUTE TO OpenSSL
 ----------------------------

 Development is coordinated on the openssl-dev mailing list (see
 http://www.openssl.org for information on subscribing). If you
 would like to submit a patch, send it to openssl-dev@openssl.org with
 the string "[PATCH]" in the subject. Please be sure to include a
 textual explanation of what your patch does.

 Note: For legal reasons, contributions from the US can be accepted only
 if a TSU notification and a copy of the patch are sent to crypt@bis.doc.gov
 (formerly BXA) with a copy to the ENC Encryption Request Coordinator;
 please take some time to look at
    http://www.bis.doc.gov/Encryption/PubAvailEncSourceCodeNofify.html [sic]
 and
    http://w3.access.gpo.gov/bis/ear/pdf/740.pdf (EAR Section 740.13(e))
 for the details. If "your encryption source code is too large to serve as
 an email attachment", they are glad to receive it by fax instead; hope you
 have a cheap long-distance plan.

 Our preferred format for changes is "diff -u" output. You might
 generate it like this:

 # cd openssl-work
 # [your changes]
 # ./Configure dist; make clean
 # cd ..
 # diff -ur openssl-orig openssl-work > mydiffs.patch




Apache License
                           Version 2.0, January 2004
                        https://www.apache.org/licenses/

   TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR USE, REPRODUCTION, AND DISTRIBUTION

   1. Definitions.

      "License" shall mean the terms and conditions for use, reproduction,
      and distribution as defined by Sections 1 through 9 of this document.

      "Licensor" shall mean the copyright owner or entity authorized by
      the copyright owner that is granting the License.

      "Legal Entity" shall mean the union of the acting entity and all
      other entities that control, are controlled by, or are under common
      control with that entity. For the purposes of this definition,
      "control" means (i) the power, direct or indirect, to cause the
      direction or management of such entity, whether by contract or
      otherwise, or (ii) ownership of fifty percent (50%) or more of the
      outstanding shares, or (iii) beneficial ownership of such entity.

      "You" (or "Your") shall mean an individual or Legal Entity
      exercising permissions granted by this License.

      "Source" form shall mean the preferred form for making modifications,
      including but not limited to software source code, documentation
      source, and configuration files.

      "Object" form shall mean any form resulting from mechanical
      transformation or translation of a Source form, including but
      not limited to compiled object code, generated documentation,
      and conversions to other media types.

      "Work" shall mean the work of authorship, whether in Source or
      Object form, made available under the License, as indicated by a
      copyright notice that is included in or attached to the work
      (an example is provided in the Appendix below).

      "Derivative Works" shall mean any work, whether in Source or Object
      form, that is based on (or derived from) the Work and for which the
      editorial revisions, annotations, elaborations, or other modifications
      represent, as a whole, an original work of authorship. For the purposes
      of this License, Derivative Works shall not include works that remain
      separable from, or merely link (or bind by name) to the interfaces of,
      the Work and Derivative Works thereof.

      "Contribution" shall mean any work of authorship, including
      the original version of the Work and any modifications or additions
      to that Work or Derivative Works thereof, that is intentionally
      submitted to Licensor for inclusion in the Work by the copyright owner
      or by an individual or Legal Entity authorized to submit on behalf of
      the copyright owner. For the purposes of this definition, "submitted"
      means any form of electronic, verbal, or written communication sent
      to the Licensor or its representatives, including but not limited to
      communication on electronic mailing lists, source code control systems,
      and issue tracking systems that are managed by, or on behalf of, the
      Licensor for the purpose of discussing and improving the Work, but
      excluding communication that is conspicuously marked or otherwise
      designated in writing by the copyright owner as "Not a Contribution."

      "Contributor" shall mean Licensor and any individual or Legal Entity
      on behalf of whom a Contribution has been received by Licensor and
      subsequently incorporated within the Work.

   2. Grant of Copyright License. Subject to the terms and conditions of
      this License, each Contributor hereby grants to You a perpetual,
      worldwide, non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable
      copyright license to reproduce, prepare Derivative Works of,
      publicly display, publicly perform, sublicense, and distribute the
      Work and such Derivative Works in Source or Object form.

   3. Grant of Patent License. Subject to the terms and conditions of
      this License, each Contributor hereby grants to You a perpetual,
      worldwide, non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable
      (except as stated in this section) patent license to make, have made,
      use, offer to sell, sell, import, and otherwise transfer the Work,
      where such license applies only to those patent claims licensable
      by such Contributor that are necessarily infringed by their
      Contribution(s) alone or by combination of their Contribution(s)
      with the Work to which such Contribution(s) was submitted. If You
      institute patent litigation against any entity (including a
      cross-claim or counterclaim in a lawsuit) alleging that the Work
      or a Contribution incorporated within the Work constitutes direct
      or contributory patent infringement, then any patent licenses
      granted to You under this License for that Work shall terminate
      as of the date such litigation is filed.

   4. Redistribution. You may reproduce and distribute copies of the
      Work or Derivative Works thereof in any medium, with or without
      modifications, and in Source or Object form, provided that You
      meet the following conditions:

      (a) You must give any other recipients of the Work or
          Derivative Works a copy of this License; and

      (b) You must cause any modified files to carry prominent notices
          stating that You changed the files; and

      (c) You must retain, in the Source form of any Derivative Works
          that You distribute, all copyright, patent, trademark, and
          attribution notices from the Source form of the Work,
          excluding those notices that do not pertain to any part of
          the Derivative Works; and

      (d) If the Work includes a "NOTICE" text file as part of its
          distribution, then any Derivative Works that You distribute must
          include a readable copy of the attribution notices contained
          within such NOTICE file, excluding those notices that do not
          pertain to any part of the Derivative Works, in at least one
          of the following places: within a NOTICE text file distributed
          as part of the Derivative Works; within the Source form or
          documentation, if provided along with the Derivative Works; or,
          within a display generated by the Derivative Works, if and
          wherever such third-party notices normally appear. The contents
          of the NOTICE file are for informational purposes only and
          do not modify the License. You may add Your own attribution
          notices within Derivative Works that You distribute, alongside
          or as an addendum to the NOTICE text from the Work, provided
          that such additional attribution notices cannot be construed
          as modifying the License.

      You may add Your own copyright statement to Your modifications and
      may provide additional or different license terms and conditions
      for use, reproduction, or distribution of Your modifications, or
      for any such Derivative Works as a whole, provided Your use,
      reproduction, and distribution of the Work otherwise complies with
      the conditions stated in this License.

   5. Submission of Contributions. Unless You explicitly state otherwise,
      any Contribution intentionally submitted for inclusion in the Work
      by You to the Licensor shall be under the terms and conditions of
      this License, without any additional terms or conditions.
      Notwithstanding the above, nothing herein shall supersede or modify
      the terms of any separate license agreement you may have executed
      with Licensor regarding such Contributions.

   6. Trademarks. This License does not grant permission to use the trade
      names, trademarks, service marks, or product names of the Licensor,
      except as required for reasonable and customary use in describing the
      origin of the Work and reproducing the content of the NOTICE file.

   7. Disclaimer of Warranty. Unless required by applicable law or
      agreed to in writing, Licensor provides the Work (and each
      Contributor provides its Contributions) on an "AS IS" BASIS,
      WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or
      implied, including, without limitation, any warranties or conditions
      of TITLE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, MERCHANTABILITY, or FITNESS FOR A
      PARTICULAR PURPOSE. You are solely responsible for determining the
      appropriateness of using or redistributing the Work and assume any
      risks associated with Your exercise of permissions under this License.

   8. Limitation of Liability. In no event and under no legal theory,
      whether in tort (including negligence), contract, or otherwise,
      unless required by applicable law (such as deliberate and grossly
      negligent acts) or agreed to in writing, shall any Contributor be
      liable to You for damages, including any direct, indirect, special,
      incidental, or consequential damages of any character arising as a
      result of this License or out of the use or inability to use the
      Work (including but not limited to damages for loss of goodwill,
      work stoppage, computer failure or malfunction, or any and all
      other commercial damages or losses), even if such Contributor
      has been advised of the possibility of such damages.

   9. Accepting Warranty or Additional Liability. While redistributing
      the Work or Derivative Works thereof, You may choose to offer,
      and charge a fee for, acceptance of support, warranty, indemnity,
      or other liability obligations and/or rights consistent with this
      License. However, in accepting such obligations, You may act only
      on Your own behalf and on Your sole responsibility, not on behalf
      of any other Contributor, and only if You agree to indemnify,
      defend, and hold each Contributor harmless for any liability
      incurred by, or claims asserted against, such Contributor by reason
      of your accepting any such warranty or additional liability.

   END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS

   APPENDIX: How to apply the Apache License to your work.

      To apply the Apache License to your work, attach the following
      boilerplate notice, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]"
      replaced with your own identifying information. (Don't include
      the brackets!)  The text should be enclosed in the appropriate
      comment syntax for the file format. We also recommend that a
      file or class name and description of purpose be included on the
      same "printed page" as the copyright notice for easier
      identification within third-party archives.

   Copyright 2019 Rolando Gopez Lacuata

   Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
   you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
   You may obtain a copy of the License at

       https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

   Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
   distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
   WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
   See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
   limitations under the License.
